In Section E,
we're gonna cover your research,
meaning questions to ask yourself
about each investment in your portfolio.
And so what we're gonna do is
I've set this up...
This was a lot of fun to make.
But I've set this up so you're just gonna click on each one
and then just select an answer yes, no,
or not applicable.
And make sure that everything that you put in your portfolio
has these, okay?
You've done the research.
Yes, no, or not applicable.
And there's a bunch of questions,
and then here you're actually going to
be able to write down,
if you said no in any of these cells,
then write optional comments here
on what you have to do or what you need to do
to make sure that all the nos here turn into a yes,
if applicable, right?
And this is...
I did this because I don't want you to rely on the media
or anybody else to pick your investments.
I want you to do the research yourself.
And I promise you if you do the research yourself
you'll be a better investor
because you'll be less likely to wanna sell it
when it goes down.
And remember Warren Buffett
said that the New York Stock Exchange
is the only store in the world
where consumers sell stuff when it goes on sale.
I don't want that to be you.
I want you to be greedy when others are fearful
and vice versa.
Okay, great.
And then here all the way on the right is,
if applicable,
this is the SEC filing, okay?
So if the stock is on the S&P 500,
then what you can do is
you can go and look at the annual report online, okay?
And so the stocks that are in the S&P 500
are these ones here, okay?
And in the United States
and in all countries,
there's usually a government website for the stock market,
right?
Where companies have to file stuff like their annual report
so everybody knows at the same time
about material events that happen to a company.
And so if we were to copy this, right?
We'll just look up for Apple, you know,
what is,
just go to look at their annual report.
Now, before I go there,
the annual report,
in the United States, at least,
is called the 10-k, okay?
Great, so let's go here
and let's open a new window.
Paste.
Great, okay, cool.
So you can see the 10-k down there for Apple, right?
So what you can do is you click on Documents
and the top one here, 10-k.
It's not that intuitive,
but there's a lot of cool info here.
And you can read about Apple here, okay?
And this is, by law,
you have to file this if you're a publicly traded company
in the United States.
So Apple has their year ending September 30th, right?
Instead of December 31st,
their year ends September 30th.
And this is the most recent annual report for Apple, okay?
So you can scroll through this
and you can read everything you need to know about Apple.
And these are, these documents,
I know it looks dry,
but they're actually amazing, amazing,
because it explains all the risks.
So if we clicked on Risks,
these are the risks for Apple, okay?
And sometimes you might not wanna buy a stock
because of some risks that you read here, okay?
And I think that the United States
has more lawyers per capita
than any country on the planet,
so all the risks are listed here.
Double-edged sword.
I guess it's good sometimes.
Okay, great.
So if you want, scroll through this,
take a look,
and this will tell you everything you need to know
about Apple, right?
It's really, really interesting.
Okay, and even management, right?
You're like, well, who's the CEO?
Well, we know it's Cook, right?
So, and you can just do a Control + F if you're using Chrome
and do a search,
I don't know, of Tim Cook.
There he is there, right?
So, oh, look at this.
So looks like Tim Cook sold some shares.
Whatever, that sort of thing.
That sort of thing.
You can look through everything.
And we know what a 401(k) plan is.
Remember we talked about the annual limits.
It's actually $18,500 for calendar 2018.
It's interesting they mentioned that there.
Okay.
Anyway, look through this.
If you have any questions about what you see
in these annual reports, let me know.
I love this stuff.
And, oh, this is cool.
You actually can see where Apple's sales
are not just revenue, right?
Which is sales, same thing.
But also the money they made,
the operating income, right?
And you can look at trends, as well, right?
It's interesting.
Look at this.
So earnings actually are down year over year,
or I should say are down from 2015 until this year
in the Americas.
You know, and the Americas is North and South America.
And then Europe,
you've got here, there's,
it's, you know, decent growth,
but it went down, as well.
That's interesting, huh.
China, as well.
Japan, rinse, lather, repeat.
You get the idea.
Okay, we can go back.
Sorry if I went off topic there,
but I thought that was interesting to mention.
All right, next up,
we're gonna go back here
and go through each one of these in order.
Okay, so the first question is here.
If this is an ETF, right,
exchange traded fund,
did you get a really low fee,
meaning hopefully under .5%,
and do you understand if there are hidden fees?
And if you don't,
then call the company and ask them.
The ETF company, that is.
Vanguard or whoever it is.
And just ask a rep on the phone to explain to you,
you know, if there are hidden fees,
and just so you can understand the fee structure, right?
So let's say yes.
Yes, if it's...
Actually, it's not applicable,
'cause that's Apple.
So this is an ETF here,
and the answer is yes.
Okay, great.
Next one.
If this is a stock,
did you try the product or service?
Yeah, I have an iPhone.
Facebook, yeah, I use it.
I understand it.
GE, I guess I have a couple appliances.
I sort of understand it.
So I'll put yes.
IBM, I don't really,
I don't know much about IBM anymore.
It used to be a PC company.
Now it's a software and services company.
So I would enter no or not applicable, whatever.
I think you get the idea, okay?
Moving on.
If this is a stock,
are you comfortable with the valuation?
Is the PE too high or too low?
Right, and so you can look through it and say yes, no,
or whatever, okay?
And this explains the difference between value investors
and growth investors,
and we'll cover that in more detail in the next section
when we discuss valuation, okay?
All right, moving on.
Is this investment in your retirement account,
right, if applicable?
And you're like, shoot,
I forgot to add Apple to my retirement account.
I don't wanna pay taxes on Apple.
Let me move it.
Right, that sort of thing.
And then here,
did you read the prospectus on this ETF,
if it's an ETF,
or did you read the annual report if it's a stock?
And we did, remember?
We went over here
and we read the annual report.
Of course, spend more time than I have here on it,
but anyway, it's pretty neat.
So I can write yes.
And then right here,
for whatever I entered no to, right?
Which is, I didn't,
but let's just say I,
say this here was no.
I did not read the annual report, right?
Then I would go here and I would say,
well, why don't we turn this into a yes, okay?
To do,
read Apple annual report on sec.gov.
Okay.
And if it's a foreign stock,
you can go to the stock market exchange website
and find the annual reports linked to there,
or just go to the website of the company itself
and do a search on investor relations, okay?
So let me do an example of this, actually.
Let's say that we're investing in Petrobras,
which is an awesome Brazilian energy company.
Patrobras.
Okay.
Ooh, all right.
And let's do a search on investor relations.
Okay, there it is.
So Petrobras,
and it knows I'm English,
so I guess it kind of defaulted there
'cause I didn't do a search on the Portuguese one.
Okay, so investor relations.
And every big company has an investor relations website,
which is awesome.
And you can go here
and learn more about Petrobras here.
And we see here that there's a bunch of different stocks
for Petrobras globally.
So this is PBR,
which means it's Petrobras on the New York Stock Exchange.
And these are the local tickers
on the, in Brazil, right?
So PBR.
And to double-check that,
we can open up a new tab here,
go to finance.yahoo.com,
and enter in the ticker for Petrobras,
which we know is PBR.
It's in the game.
There we go.
Petrobras.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Petroleo Brasil.
That's how it's, huh.
I had no idea
that's how they came up with the name Petrobras.
Pretty neat.
Okay.
So, and you can go through and read about the company here.
Wow, look at the beta.
That's a hot, that's a risky stock.
Wow.
That means the stock has been very volatile
relative to the market in the recent past.
Okay, there's no dividend here,
at least on this one here,
the Petrobras one that's listed
on the New York Stock Exchange.
Okay.
And all this data is in your spreadsheet.
Except for beta.
I don't know why I didn't pull that in yet.
If and when they make that change,
I'll update the spreadsheet for you, okay?
You can look at the charts.
Anyway, you can map it over time, whatever.
I don't know if that means statistics.
Financials.
And when you look at stuff on Yahoo Finance,
if you ever scroll down
and you see a story written about a company,
if it says sponsored story,
please don't read it, okay?
Because they might be trying to influence you, okay?
And these are options, right?
So basically you can buy a contract called a call
that will pay you a fortune over time
if the stock goes up a lot.
Otherwise you'll lose all of it, okay?
And a straddle is basically when you own
an option for the stock to go up and down.
So you're kind of protected on both sides, okay?
I'm not gonna go into detail there.
I don't want you to buy options, please.
Thank you.
Okay, so you can look at who are the holders.
So who owns the stock?
It's, you can see that
the biggest shareholder is Capital World Investors,
and they own about 6% of the company.
And then Wellington, which is in Boston.
You get the idea, okay?
And you can just scroll down,
learn more about the company, as well.
And if you have any questions on this stuff, let me know.
I used to actually focus a lot of time
on Brazilian equities,
so I enjoy the sector.
I like the market a lot, too.
Okay, let's go back here.
And I think we're done.
We're done, right?
And again, if you cannot find the annual report
on sec.gov because the company's not listed
in the United States,
you can always do a search on that company's name
plus investor relations,
because every company that's big
and publicly traded has investor relations.
So let me just do one more really quick here, okay?
So let me open up a new tab here.
And let's look at Baidu investor relations.
Here it is here.
And you can click on it
and you can get access to just a ton of information
on Baidu.
And there's an awesome law which is
any company that's listed on American markets,
they have to disclose all information to all investors
at the same time.
So those big mutual funds don't have the advantage
over us anymore.
Maybe that's why they underperform so much.
Anyway, so you can go here,
and if there's an earnings call,
you can actually listen to it.
And they do a lot of a...
A lot of webcasts, right?
At investor events.
So you can actually watch those events, as well.
You can add these to your calendar,
the next IR events,
that sort of thing.
It's pretty cool, pretty cool.
Anyway, if you have a question about this,
please let me know.
Otherwise we are done with the stock research section here,
and next up we'll talk about the optional section.